Thank you. >> Good afternoon. I'm going to go over very briefly about the teaching of the CHAPJI
video machine. And we are here in the point line. So that's what we've been doing for the last
three days.
And we've been discussing...
We've been discussing, of course, the greatest teachers, the Buddha Chaitanya is teaching. We've
been discussing about how we put teaching into the practice and that can benefit ourselves for
taking the advantage of our very beautiful present lives.
So that's what we've been doing on the teaching. That is what it is. The Hissons of the universe
said that here, those people would like to really transform the samsara, the samsara, into the
state of the great pure land or the enlightenment stages, how we should follow that asset.
So then we lay out that when we put time to the practices, that can be summarized in the two
sections. Post-meditation and meditation status.
Post-meditation status or post-practice status, we should always have... Where there is post-med
itation or the meditation state or practice status, we should always have beautiful motivations.
The motivation is the foundation of the practices. And not just only that, according to Buddhism,
the mind is the ground foundation of everything. Everything. Everything starts from the mind.
There's nothing really is developed or started without the mind. And so therefore, mind has many
different thoughts and conceptions, but good motivations, correct motivations, positive motivations
.
What that is, positive motivations, of course, you all know. Joy and appreciation both each other
in the purity and understanding of the way things are on the reality level.
Not duality level, but the reality level. All beyond duality, how these things are all, all and
everything is.
Kind of reflecting those thoughts very much. And so nowadays, joy and appreciation are opposite of
the deep present.
Anxiety and worries, all that things, those kind of unhealthy mental status and then sadness. All
that we kind of bring up in the mental status and completely occupy our mind.
Mind with all these kind of unhealthy motivations, that really is not going to help anyone. And
therefore, we have to change that motivation.
How we will bring joy and appreciation, and we really experience a lot of difficult troubles,
particularly such as this time, there's so many kind of challenges going on.
Is it true? It's difficult to have joy and appreciation many times, but we have to think more
realistic, more like sensibles with common sense.
Now, this situation, what we are facing now is not just only us. The whole world looks like really
going on there, going.
And everyone is talking, they have to be isolated and as well as watch hands and wear the mask and
so forth, every instruction is saying that.
For maybe those all we can do, particularly this country or the development countries, but those
who are really not developed, all countries, they cannot even, they need to do, they cannot do all
those things, what we can do here.
So at least at that level, how much will you have a good advantage that we can take care of
ourselves, follow the instructions, that is not just also coincidental.
Truly we have the visual cause and conditions, what are those situations that are kind of like
surrendering to us, really feel happy and joy with that, even though we are going all these myths
of the challenge and the difficulty, but we have some, we can take care of that and we really
follow the instructions.
We can do every best to prevent those situations and overcome that.
And that is what is all that. And then for us, we have what I said yesterday and you all know, we
have the beautiful situation as women lives, that is also not really kind of casual and
insignificant, we have beautiful life.
Then for us, we have the freedom that we do life, but ten luxuries. And we put all those five lux
uries that are related with others, five luxuries that are related with their own self, we put
together those, we have the 18 luxuries of all 18 endowments, ten luxuries.
And that means spiritual, we are really well convicted of the wealthy individuals, maybe material
level, maybe we don't have everything, but spiritual level, really we are quite wealthy, which is
wonderful and beautiful.
According to many great masters and expertise, smart ones who say, material wealth will not last
forever. Even you do everything, every effort of trying to keep up these and that things won't last
, but when you develop the spiritual, the Dharma wealth in your heart and mind, that goes on and on.
Not just only on this lifetime, every belief, future lives or heaven, it will go all the way to the
heavens, future lives. So it is so rewarding to have the spiritual wealth that all start with
beautiful motivation, joy and appreciation.
Lighten our mind and heart with joy and combine with courage and commitment. That's how we overcome
all the troubles.
Read books of the life story of those 18 great masters, Bodhisattvas. What means Bodhisattvas? They
are known as warriors.
They are conqueror of the troubles and difficulties, negative emotions of samsara and bring the joy
and peace, happiness, turned environment, their perception and their conception into the violent
states.
That's what in Buddhism known as warriors, truly they will conquer the negative beliefs and trouble
makers and dualities and ego clings and become one of the beautiful beings in the world, so calm, so
faithful, so simple, yet so concerning and so thoughtful and respectful to every living being.
Thou doth art, naught on as great Bodhisattvas. So this all, every able to maintain that, that is
like as I said, the motivation is the ground of whether we are practicing or whether we are a post-
practice status, is key, essential.
That is what always the teaching says and you all know. We all know that. So in a way, we are
reminded to each other.
Now, we will put in the practice there, particularly in the practice, always in the teaching said,
it's very beautiful and very special to reflect the poor, renowned, second thoughts, poor, renowned
, second thought or point that will change the mind.
And I went first one, presuming lives, act freedoms, 10 luxuries, those I already just mentioned
and you all know that I went kind of really all that.
That is so special. We should be happy in joy, but the same time have the courage and commitment,
confidence that I'm going to use that better purposes.
What that means, better purpose, to benefit one's own self, benefit to others, benefit all other
beings, according my best capabilities.
If we are able to do that, if we have that intention, attitude, thought and put that in action
according our capabilities and readiness of others, then we follow in the footsteps of the
enlightened.
And so that is the practice of lives. Second is, second of the poor, renowned sessions, the imper
manent, impermanent, reflecting mind on impermanent.
This is also essence of the mindfulness. Personally and time, we don't see the impermanent.
Permanent, impermanent is a kind of skipping way, where we don't notice because our mind is so
gross, looking something completely different.
We don't really look carefully to the reality where things are happening.
But impermanent is part of our lives. Part of this universe, part of the world is nothing in any
kind of unusual or special or kind of bad things.
That's the part of the game, part of the show, part of the display we go, impermanent.
So therefore, reflecting that impermanent is supreme mindfulness.
Isn't it mindfulness? You see, we are truly things now. And it's changing.
There is a trip impermanent in the Buddha's teaching mission, gross impermanent and very subtle
impermanent.
Gross impermanent, occasionally we kind of notice that. That we can't notice, even though maybe we
don't really pay attention to that.
But we can now notice. But subtle impermanent, we won't notice. It's so subtle.
What that means, subtle, that instantly is changing. Everything is changing instantly and there is
even not stopping one second or one fraction of seconds.
Stop is changing all the time, continually changing. That is known as subtle impermanent or instant
impermanent sometimes.
Because of that, gross change is happening. For example, when you have a clock, watch.
Hour is not just coming by itself. Second is happening every second. Second is changing to the
minute.
Minute to then, then hours come. That's how really things are happening.
From the small stage, it's changing. So therefore, luckily the impermanent is in the Buddha's
teaching.
The gracious, kindness, wise teacher said, "It's a supreme knowledge."
When you have that thought, what it will bring, if you have kind of clearly thought of impermanent,
it will bring our mind more sensible, more practical.
And we will use our time with good purpose. That means we are not going to waste our time.
Many times, we waste our time. That means without any improvement or benefit to ourselves or one's
own self to the others.
Really, that happens so many times. Just kind of casually just running away.
Life is running away as a roller coaster. We don't notice this. This is true.
It's not just the Buddha said, the other great Master said.
When we look carefully, kind of sit down on the floor or sit down on the cushion or the chair,
reflecting inwardly, how much things have changed in our lives. How many things have happened?
But still it's continuing. It happened in the past. It is happening now. It will happen in the
future.
And for that reason, in our teachings, on the practice and lineage,
all principles, how we are going to reflect the impermanent more kind of precisely, more carefully.
Reflecting the impermanent of the universe, reflecting the impermanent of the inhabitants of the
universe.
Reflecting the impermanent of the old noble beings.
Reflecting the impermanent of those great powerful ones.
And reflecting the impermanent in variety levels, ways to reflect this.
And reflecting the impermanent meant our own lives.
And kind of strongly reflecting the mind of the impermanent as much as we can.
Kind of very strongly, kind of very carefully reflecting those.
Those are the different, reflecting the impermanent, different method, layout of the great Masters.
If we think of the universe, we think always that the universe is so big, so jagged, so solid, so
stable.
It cannot happen anything. It's not true. According to Buddhism.
Once upon a time, this universe of the world where we are now is not here.
All came, gradually.
Those to come is also known as eons. Eons, it takes.
It has a period of the completely empty spaces where this our world is now.
That being according to Buddhism for 20 eons.
Then process and develop in this universe once there is empty space.
Develop in this, take 20 eons.
Now, then there is 20 eons will stay full function of the universe as it is now.
Then 20 eons will go decline of this universe, go finished, go into process of the finishing.
Again, then what will become at this place where the world is completely become empty, empty spaces
.
This process of changing is happening all the time. Changing on the universal level of the world
levels.
There is nothing that really lasts forever. Everything is changing.
Everything is moving. Everything is running in a way.
That's how this universe is. It's true statement.
It's not just making stories, exaggeration or kind of new phenomenon trying to develop our mental
state.
That is the evidence you look at.
Then we started thinking the inhabitants of this universe.
Inhabitals who live in this world, how many things are changed in this world?
Look and read the history of that.
For example, each and all those civilizations, such as I heard the Atlantic, kind of great
civilization in the Atlantic, disappeared.
There is only kind of building history or guessing stories.
Then there is the history of this continent or this west continent.
There is called the Inghasi, something so powerful, so organized, so strong. Also building becomes
history.
There are so many of those great civilizations, great histories.
One after another, the souls, like when you read those histories, look so powerful, so majestic, so
stable, all that.
But all those gone on the side, only in the memories.
Then we read stories of even a hundred years ago.
How many things are changed?
How many? Is all that?
It's known as reflecting the impermanent to the inhabitants of beings, kind of a general level, how
that all happens.
The animals go pacifically to reflect the impermanent to the holy beings, the great beings,
who are known as such high-speed level realization achievements in the Buddhism of our greatest
teacher,
Buddha Shakyamalu, who is highest realization we achieved.
But also even himself is, in a way, gone.
All those great arharas, Mahasadas, they can transform water into the fire,
finally into the water, walking in the sky, sitting in the sky, sleeping, laid down in the sky,
and performing activity in the sky, going through the wall of the mountains.
And that great beings, that who can transform and change things, but then also, only become
historians.
Only maybe we can see some evidences, some signs, this and that now, some monuments.
Or say, "Oh, this is what this great master in life beings did, this and that. That is monument."
This becomes an object of interaction, or object of the primitive sport.
And then in a non-fiction school, there are so many great beings.
These sages, in the Hindu sense, they do similar things. Great beings also are historians.
And in the greater kachyanas, such as the sons of God, all those great sages, saints,
they can do so many great things, one after another, but they are also gone on the sides.
So why does that happen? Why is this? This is known as impermanence.
There is nothing that lasts forever, as it is.
It is always changing, always changing, shifting, shifting, always.
Then you are now reflecting to a more individual level, a personal level.
How much each of us went through, see the changes in our own lifetimes, or our own self?
For example, for once upon a time, we are small, but impenuous.
The mother or the parent can held in us, complete our body in their palms or hands.
Now, what will happen? Until now, since we have the memories,
until now, how many things have changed?
How many of them went through, one after another?
This is not something that we planned, we desired, we wished to have.
You know, that happened. We don't take any choices, without any blockages.
And for ourselves, we change. Every day, ourselves changes.
For example, this morning, now, this evening, and it is continuing.
It is continuing. Same thing.
And therefore, for that reason, what are the greatest kindness,
ambiguity, what I have come and said?
But even though the impermanence is old, that kind of looks like changing,
but if we use that time, we can make something beautiful development,
because of the environment. We can take full advantage.
What does the great master, his whole of the universe, say?
Take advantage of these lives.
Advantage is, nobody is controlling us.
Since we have add freedoms and ten lectures, we can use this time, our self,
use the time wisely, do something good, that is related with our mind,
our spiritual qualities, that we will love in our mental states.
Or whatever we do, mentally activities, or positive activities, whatever we do,
it will not go into that energy that marries, not just finish it, go on.
It will stay in our mental states.
Where it will stay in the mental state, like bank of the space, mental space,
B-A-N-K, bank, bank of the mental spaces,
or in the teachings in the subconscious storehouse.
It will be registered, saved, everything there.
It will always shine, reflecting that whenever the right time comes.
That is. So therefore, this reflecting in our mind is so important
because it is realistic. It is true.
We are trying to ignore that. We are fooling our self.
It is fooling our self. We are hiding, we completely can't really put blind covers,
our eye, and trying to not look that.
Maybe it is just a kind of whether you won't see that for time,
because of blind covers. But that is not going to help to anything.
For that reason, reflecting in one's mind is supreme mindfulness.
It brings more knowledge, more understanding,
and we have the courage and the commitment, the confidence,
then use the time to maximize something, beautiful things,
to benefit our self and to the other beings.
That is what is known as the impermanent, impermanent, impermanent,
and that is the second point of the renunciation,
or second point that will change the mind.
And again, what that means, what I am saying, that changed the mind.
This poor renunciation, or this poor mind, we reflect each of that.
That will change our mind, such grasping, clinging,
and that attitude of the samsara, or this world we are.
We become more, as I said already, we become more calmer,
more peaceful, more gentle, more respectful, more sensible,
and with a full, our common sense.
That means we are really having good mindfulness.
When we don't have the mindfulness, alertness,
then those all kind of carried by the pulse of the self-important
and the ego clings.
Then, can we end up with many difficult troubles,
that we kiss maybe many times on our own creations.
So therefore, it is so beautiful and so spiritual,
and we keep reflecting those thoughts.
Then, it really will bring all the advantages
of these beautiful lives, precious lives.
And that is my brief talk for today.
And thank you very much, everyone, for participating.
And be with us, and thank you.
Now we do again short meditation.